Katie Kauppi

Feb. 25

I agree more with Kitchin than Anderson when considering how data has impacted our use of theory. Sure, Anderson is justified in sayinng that data oftentimes can speak for itself and eliminate the need for traditional forms of testing with theory to establish a conclusion. This has indeed proven true for many instances over history where big data has proven itself capable of connecting dots without theory's intervention, like with his primary example of Google's algorithms to connect advertisements with the viewers who are most receptive to them. However, Kitchin rebuts this well by reminding Anderson that data is only as good as the biases of those who programmed it. Data will only show a one-dimensional view of an issue and can easily over- or under- represent certain groups based on a number of factors; for instance, more affluent populations are more likely to produce more cell phone or Internet data because of more frequent usage. As Kitchin put it, big data is not a "God's eye view" of the world. Perhaps for issues as simple as who sees what ad, the use of data to bypass traditional testing may be sufficent. However, for larger issues that relate more to development and general well-being, it is too dangerous to rely on numbers alone rather than conduct actual tests to ensure the outcome has every group's best interest at heart. 

Though I disagree with the sentiment that data should be the end all and be all for decision making on a broad scale, I instead challenge those in charge to utilize datasets to support traditional tests of theory in order to allow the theory to work with more ease since choices can be guided through data. If a dataset seems to support a specific choice, like directing aid towards houses with thatched roofs, the fourth paradigm indicates that traditional theory should consider the options presented by the data in order to avoid wasting time on options that are unhelpful or even harmful to the situation. With ad software or similar programs, one could typically stop there. However, when the thatched roofs turn out to be an inadequate solution, perhaps traditional theory should be considered to further the development.
